hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with how to blueberry pancakes
that's right we always get a ton of food
wishes for breakfast recipes and it's
come to my attention that many of you
are not doing blueberry pancakes
properly so let me show you what I
consider to be the ultimate method for
blueberry pancakes and while we're doing
this I'll explain why the other methods
aren't as good so step one you're going
to make a batch of your favorite pancake
batter
we have several on the blog that are
fantastic so check those outs and you're
going to ladle that into a preheated
skillet I usually cook my pancakes on
medium-high and as we're forming that
you'll probably notice there are new
blueberries in the batter what we're
going to do is place them on top and by
place I mean throw down wind up from
like a foot away and throw them down I
want deep impact
I want them embedded into the batter
just like that so right off the bat
using this method you're going to get
perfect blueberry distribution because
you're controlling where they go and if
you're thinking why didn't you just put
them in the batter no that doesn't work
as good first of all the gobbles berries
mixed in evenly you're probably over
mixing your batter plus as you're
labeling the blueberries will settle and
then some pancakes will have like 20
blueberries some will only have like 3 I
brunch guests get upset words are
exchanged hands are thrown long story
short you're out of the will thanks
going so this is a much safer method so
you're gonna go ahead and throw down as
many blueberries as you like and yes I'm
just doing one for filming purposes but
even if you have a large skillet with
for pancakes going those are going to
take 2 or 3 minutes before the ready to
turn so you have plenty of time to throw
down your blueberries when you get down
to those last couple open spots you can
push them in but the throwing is the
most fun part of the project and by the
time your blueberries are placed your
pancakes should be ready to flip and you
know the signs the edge of the pancake
starts to look cooked and dry and those
bubbles will come up to the surface so
at that point we're going to flip it
over and then besides perfect
distribution as we talked about earlier
the real magic to this method is the
direct contact of the blueberries to the
skillet so instead of them being
insulated by the batter and just sitting
in the middle of that pancake just
barely getting warm in a couple minutes
it takes to cook this side of the
pancake those blueberries are getting
hot they're getting sweet they're
getting juicy which is just not going to
happen as easily if they're stuck in the
middle of the batter I mean a couple
might be touching the bottom but
using this method they're all getting
sweet and juicy so I think it works much
much better than mixing them into the
batter and of course if you want to show
off your hot and juicy berries you can
leave it facing up like that put on your
butter and syrup but I'm kind of your
purist I'm going to flip mine over oops
clean it up of course I'm going to
spread on a little more butter that
melted and some maple syrup and then as
we cut in you're going to see not only
the perfect blueberry distribution but
more importantly you can see that
blueberry juice mixing with the syrup
I'll say one last time the berries are
hot they're juicy and they're sweet so
anyway just a quick and easy tutorial on
how to properly blueberry a pancake do
not mix them into the batter this works
much better not only does every pancake
have the same number of blueberries
using this method each forkful has about
the same number of blueberries and by
the way you restaurants that are just
dumping blueberries on top of pancakes
and calling them blueberry pancakes
those are not blueberry pancakes those
are pancakes so that doesn't count
blueberry pancakes have blueberries in
them and when it comes to blueberry
pancake integration you can't go wrong
with this method so I really hope you
give it a try
head over to food wishes comm for all
the ingredient amounts and more info as
usual and as always enjoy
you